Tree Data Structure

A tree is a nonlinear hierarchical data structure that consists of nodes connected by edges.

Tree Terminologies

Node
A node is an entity that contains a key or value and pointers to its child nodes.

The last nodes of each path are called leaf nodes or external nodes that do not contain a link/pointer to child nodes.

The node having at least a child node is called an internal node.

Edge
It is the link between any two nodes.

Root
It is the topmost node of a tree.

Height of a Node
The height of a node is the number of edges from the node to the deepest leaf ( the longest path from the node to a leaf node).

Degree of a Node
The degree of a node is the total number of branches of that node.

Tree Applications
Binary Search Trees(BSTs) are used to quickly check whether an element is present in a set or not.
Heap is a kind of tree that is used for heap sort.
A modified version of a tree called Tries is used in modern routers to store routing information.
Most popular databases use B-Trees and T-Trees, which are variants of the tree structure we learned above to store their data
Compilers use a syntax tree to validate the syntax of every program you write.

Types of Binary Tree

1. Full Binary Tree
A full Binary tree is a special type of binary tree in which every parent node/internal
 node has either two or no children.

2. Perfect Binary Tree
A perfect binary tree is a type of binary tree in which every internal node has exactly two child nodes and all the
 leaf nodes are at the same level.

 3. Complete Binary Tree
 A complete binary tree is just like a full binary tree, but with two major differences

 Every level must be completely filled
 All the leaf elements must lean towards the left.
 The last leaf element might not have a right sibling i.e. a complete binary
 tree doesn't have to be a full binary tree.

 4. Degenerate or Pathological Tree
 A degenerate or pathological tree is the tree having a single child either left or right.

 5. Skewed Binary Tree
 A skewed binary tree is a pathological/degenerate tree in which the tree is either dominated
 by the left nodes or the right nodes. Thus, there are two types of skewed binary tree: left-skewed
  binary tree and right-skewed binary tree.

  6. Balanced Binary Tree
  It is a type of binary tree in which the difference between the height of the left and the right
   subtree for each node is either 0 or 1.
